README.md, before:

[![website](https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=critical&down_message=down&up_color=brightgreen&up_message=up&url=https%3A%2F%2Fprojectdelve.com%2F)](https://projectdelve.com/) [![open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/punnypenguins/projectdelve?logoColor=orange)](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/issues)
 
# 📘 README 📘

![alt text](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/blob/main/public/images/project-delve-logo.png)

# The Project

Project Delve was originally conceived as a one-stop-shop where people could find only *active* distributed computing and citizen science projects, and find *all* of them—no more needing to search google, click through pages of listings on various project hub sites, or clicking through fifty links just to find that all but seven of them were months or years out of date.

The point is, I got frustrated, decided to do something about it, taught myself to build a site, and threw this whole thing together in about a month.

As I started to build the site in earnest, I came across so many other online volunteer projects for historical records, media archives, and fields in the humanities, that I decided to expand the scope of Project Delve to include those too.

In its current iteration, Project Delve holds **six major categories of volunteer projects:**
- Distributed computing projects
- Historical record and archive projects
- Hub websites that host or point you toward many more projects
- Projects from various fields in the humanities
- Citizen science projects that can be done on devices alone
- Citizen science projects that require you to go outside at least once

I will be adding more projects to the site as I find them and as people send them to me. As of right now, the website contains individual listings of every active project I found around the internet except for those from many of the websites in the "Hub Websites" section. I intended to add those as well, but as some of them had hundreds to 1,000+ projects listed, I decided it would be a better user experience if you *didn't* have to scroll through hundreds and hundreds of projects on this one static web page.

So if you're looking for more projects than you find listed individually on here, make sure you check the hub websites out; you'll find many of them probably have exactly the category you were looking for.

# Contributing

The guide to contributing to this project via GitHub has everything you need to know over in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/blob/main/documentation/CONTRIBUTING.md)

If you're not able to edit/contribute via GitHub, you can always [**email me**](kgeerling@protonmail.com) with relevant information and I'll get back with you as soon as I can.

# The Creator

I'm Katie. You don't need to know about me, because the point of this website is—shocking, I know—the actual *website*. But if you're looking to get in contact with me, or want to see my other work, you can follow the links below.
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/katherine-geerling-774929111)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/punnypenguins)
- [Blog](https://somemossthoughts.wordpress.com/)
- My [Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/punnypenguins)
- My [Email](kgeerling@protonmail.com)

Commit message:

Fixed error and added more instructions
Contains fix for Issue #15

README.md, after:

[![website](https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=critical&down_message=down&up_color=brightgreen&up_message=up&url=https%3A%2F%2Fprojectdelve.com%2F)](https://projectdelve.com/) [![open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/punnypenguins/projectdelve?logoColor=orange)](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/issues)

# 📘 README 📘

![alt text](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/blob/main/public/images/project-delve-logo.png)

# The Project

Project Delve was originally conceived as a one-stop-shop where people could find only *active* distributed computing and citizen science projects, and find *all* of them—no more needing to search google, click through pages of listings on various project hub sites, or clicking through fifty links just to find that all but seven of them were months or years out of date.

The point is, I got frustrated, decided to do something about it, taught myself to build a site, and threw this whole thing together in about a month.

As I started to build the site in earnest, I came across so many other online volunteer projects for historical records, media archives, and fields in the humanities, that I decided to expand the scope of Project Delve to include those too.

In its current iteration, Project Delve holds **six major categories of volunteer projects:**
- Distributed computing projects
- Historical record and archive projects
- Hub websites that host or point you toward many more projects
- Projects from various fields in the humanities
- Citizen science projects that can be done on devices alone
- Citizen science projects that require you to go outside at least once

I will be adding more projects to the site as I find them and as people send them to me. As of right now, the website contains individual listings of every active project I found around the internet except for those from many of the websites in the "Hub Websites" section. I intended to add those as well, but as some of them had hundreds to 1,000+ projects listed, I decided it would be a better user experience if you *didn't* have to scroll through hundreds and hundreds of projects on this one static web page.

So if you're looking for more projects than you find listed individually on here, make sure you check the hub websites out; you'll find many of them probably have exactly the category you were looking for.

For more information on where this project is headed in the future, check out [Project Delve's roadmap]() on GitHub.

# Contributing

The guide to contributing to this project via GitHub has everything you need to know over in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/punnypenguins/projectdelve/blob/main/documentation/CONTRIBUTING.md)

If you're not able to edit/contribute via GitHub, you can always [**email me**](kgeerling@protonmail.com) with relevant information and I'll get back with you as soon as I can.

# The Creator

I'm Katie. You don't need to know about me, because the point of this website is—shocking, I know—the actual *website*. But if you're looking to get in contact with me, or want to see my other work, you can follow the links below.
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/katherine-geerling-774929111)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/punnypenguins)
- [Blog](https://somemossthoughts.wordpress.com/)
- My [Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/punnypenguins)
- My [Email](kgeerling@protonmail.com)
