+++
title = "HamSCI"
tags = ["science" "ham radio" "online" "astrophysics"]
+++

## HamSCI

View the project [**here**](https://hamsci.org/).

### Overview

Since the beginning of the United States amateur radio service in 1912, amateur radio operators have made significant contributions to radio technology and the understanding of radio science.  This work must be continued today, as Part 97 of the FCC rules states that a primary purpose of the amateur radio service is the “Continuation and extension of the amateur's proven ability to contribute to the advancement of the radio art.”  Recent advances in the fields of computing, software defined radio, and signal processing provide unprecedented opportunities to meet this mandate, specifically in the field of radio science.  These opportunities are already beginning to be realized with the advent of systems such as the Reverse Beacon Network (RBN), the Weak Signal Propagation Reporting Network (WSPRNet), and PSKReporter.  In addition, enabling amateurs to make and contribute legitimate scientific observations will expose amateur radio to a wider community of people interested in science around the world.

HamSCI was started by ham-scientists who study upper atmospheric and space physics. These scientists recognized that projects such as the Reverse Beacon Network, WSPRNet, PSKReporter, DX Cluster, ClubLog, and more are generating big data sets that could provide useful observations of the Earth's ionosphere and related systems. Because of this, HamSCI's initial focus is on these fields of research. In the future, other researchers may join HamSCI and broaden its scope.

HamSCI is driven by data generated by the activities of ham radio operators (a.k.a. amateur radio operators). Ham radio operators are people who are interested in using radio as a hobby and have obtained a ham radio license from their state government. Ham radio is a very diverse hobby. Some operators enjoy talking to friends accross town, while others work to build stations that can communicate around the world. Ham radio operators can help with emergency communications and public service, or even help advance the boundaries of scientific knowledge.

Any interested person can become a ham radio operator. Amateur radio can introduce young people to an exciting career in the field of science and technology, or it can simply serve as a fun and productive hobby for anyone who would like to get involved. The [American Radio Relay League](http://www.arrl.org/what-is-ham-radio) is a great place to learn about how to become a ham radio operator.

### Location:
Online
